And, um, yeah, and I have… I have more time in my life.
I'm sorry, we have bells going off here, I apologize for that. Where is that coming from?
No worries about the bells.
We're not… I don't think we're hearing them here. They might be in your background.
Yeah, Zoom does a good job of eliminating background sounds.
It does. It's got nice filters.
Uh, this is the Open Global Mind weekly call on Thursday, September 25th, 2025.
Gil was just reporting in on the many different Zoom meeting assistants he's been trying out, and a bit of an addiction, and how he had withdrawal.
getting off Facebook just recently.
And I was reminded of the scene in French Connection Part 2, I think.
Where the French mafia addicts Popeye Doyle to heroin, and then he has to go cold turkey, and there's…
I think I remember a really good scene when I was young.
I was a little young for an R-rated movie back then, but uh… I remember a scene where he goes through withdrawal, and it was my first exposure to, like,
what happens that way.
I don't remember that at all. All I remember from that movie is the car chase under the elevated trains.
Sure, Jerry, just…
Yep. Which, apparently, they didn't… they didn't have a lot of clearance to do that. It's… the story, I think, is that they just kind of winged it.
Hmm.
Sorry, Jerry, just to… for posterity, and because we're recording this, just to clarify.
Uh, that was the first time you said you weren't… you realized what cold turkey was, one of the many you've been through?
Is that what you suggested? The joke, by the way.
Yeah, I did not… I did not suggest that, but uh… but yeah.
By the way, if I disappear, we've had two parkheads in the last, um.
Oh, so if I disappear, it's not because of something you've said.
So are the, uh, are the authorities…
Or anyone said, uh, it's because we had a cut. Strange new world, strange new world of ours, two and a half years, I saw someone.
Working on a local substation, and asked them what he was doing.
He said they were… there were joining up extra parts of power.
Into the substation, so if one path. Cuts out, there's another one kicks in straight away.
Power, yeah, power cuts.
We've had plenty of park cuts since then, whatever the… Whatever the system is…
Power cut.
Yeah, whatever the system is, it doesn't work. Or not officially.
So clearly, an improvement.
Well, they spent money, economy worked. People got chefs, you know, shareholdings or whatever.
Yep.
Cool. Um…
System kicks on, moves on.
Uh, Stacey, I am reading your email.
And I think it's a nice idea.
about the topic. Uh, I can either read what you just said, or you can explain what you said, which do you prefer?
Well, if you understood it from reading it, I trust they will understand it.
Cool. I think I'll just read it in in a sec.
Where is everybody?
Is there enough going on in the world for you?
Yeah. Kind of crazy times.
Let's dive into the topic, and I'll read, uh…
I'll read Stacy's note to the Open Global Mind List.
Which is, hi gang, for the topic of abundance.
I'd like to request trying out a simple speed round exercise before going into our usual rounds of conversation,
I propose that we each say in a few words, think of it as a title, phrase, headline,
bumper sticker, whatever you want to call it.
That only answers the what it is.
Refrain from adding the how, where, when, and why. Just what abundance is, I think you're saying.
At least for this quick round. Anyone can choose to say pass,
Yes, with a button.
Thank you for consideration. Uh, at least you didn't say thank you for attention to this matter, uh, which is how Trump ends many of his incredible, uh, Truth Social posts.
Which is, of course, the source of news these days. That's how policy's made.
Which is why the… which is why the wink was there, to make sure that you made that connection between attention and consideration.
And the parallel between what I was saying and what Trump was saying.
Very nice, very nice. There's Wink and also hearts, so…
So there's a reason for that wink.
Love that. Um…
I thought their hearts were obvious.
Beautiful. That sounds great. So, uh, why don't we make a little, uh, circle of the room and see what just the what,
Not the how, why, what, not the explanatory stuff.
And just a short phrase, it's our quick round robin, so don't go way deep, but think about what abundance
is. And, uh, I think I'll just ask for volunteers, whoever would like to go.
Stacey, why don't you go first?
Love, love that.
Because I thought about it. Abundance for me is having what you need.
When you need it.
Are we done? Is that good for everybody?
Sure, sure, yeah. That's the point. We can add later.
I'll go.
Please.
Uh, Jerry, I like your manner of asking for volunteers, that's excellent.
I immediately thought of the passage in Pirkeavot, The Wisdom of the Father… Wisdom of the Ancestors, said, who is rich?
The person who is content with their lot.
Content with their life.
Content.
Content, yes, and that's what I thought I said.
Yeah.
Um, thanks, Gil. Who's next?
Everybody's being so pithy and, like, right on, right on mission here. I'm a little, like,
It's early, how'd that happen?
Hi, Jesse.
Everyone. Hi. I'm gonna say ikigai.
Hello.
Thank you, guys. So the overlapping diagram
of, uh, what you…
Do what you love, do what you are good at, do what the world needs, and do what you can pay… get paid for.
There we go.
Um, thank you. Who else would like to go?
Abundance.
I was saying pass, by the way, I'll just pass on that one.
Alex passes.
Excellent. Uh, Pete, Rick, Doug, Klaus?
I mean?
I have an oblique, um…
contribution. Uh, love is all you need.
Cool.
Yeah, I would frame it along the same lines as skilled, abundance.
Is, is, uh, to be at peace with… Now, what, uh, with the gifts you have been given.
infinite possibility, love that.
For me, I think, uh, infinite possibility.
John, uh, you've come into…
We're doing a very quick round on what abundance means. What we think abundance is in, like, a phrase or sentence or bumper sticker.
And we're two-thirds of the way through the group.
Um, so if you'd like to jump in, that's good. I'm going to be slightly controversial, and I'm going to say abundance is more than enough.
That's a good answer.
We also like to jump in?
Well, I apologize for being late, but I'll roll with what you said, Jerry. More than enough is a good, good way to frame it.
Thank you. Uh, Rick?
False?
Oh, that's right, that's right, Classman.
Ricky, can you hear us? Come in, Rick. Come in, Rick.
Went. We're just waiting for recreate.
Oh, yes, yeah, yeah, I'm just, um, co-intelligence.
Abundance is co-intelligence.
Thank you. Um…
Yeah, that worked well. Thanks, Stacy.
Thank you, everybody.
So, uh, Pete has a whole new avatar picture for his… I was like, oh wait, wait, this is new!
It's like when we change our hairdo, like, what happened? Wait.
So, I'm really interested in the contrast, because back in the day, Diamandis and Kotler wrote Abundance.
And they kind of meant, uh, we now have the capacity to make between nanotech and
And, uh, endless energy, and all these sort of… it was a techno-optimist manifesto of sorts.
And it comes from a place of,
oh my gosh, oh my gosh, like, we could… we could just overwhelm all these mo… all these places where there is scarcity with… with technology.
And it's a little light on the barriers and between belief systems and regulations and politics and all that kind of stuff. It's pretty light on that.
I've not read either of these books in full.
But, um… but it was very much on the… in the techno-optimist, uh, vein. Then, very recently, Ezra Klein and Derek Thompson wrote Abundance, which I think doesn't have a subtitle.
Which has become a piece of the democratic movement,
and was saying, hey, one of the things that's preventing us from getting abundance on things like housing and other social goods,
is over-regulation and constraints, and some people are critiquing this view as being kind of
Neoliberal, it's very much, let's get the government, let's get regs out of the way so that we can generate abundance for everybody.
Which is, uh, possible if we sort of let people get things built and done.
Uh, the book, I think, has a very nice critique of progressives and liberals,
who have layered in so many regs that it's hard to do things.
I have a friend who's in commercial real estate here in Portland,
And you only need to, like, glance at this topic, and he will regale you with stories about why it's so, so difficult
Uh, to get things built or done.
Uh, here in Portland.
And then… and then…
I've got a point of view on abundance that I'll just put in the room.
Uh, which is that…
humans who know how to live in community on the commons create abundance in many ways, together.
And that it requires trust to do so.
And so I created a little formula that I like, scarcity equals abundance minus trust.
Which is not about either of the things that I just mentioned, the other two approaches from the other two books.
It's more that…
In places around the world, we used to know how to create abundance, and we didn't have to worry. People could be happy and well-fed.
live well, and in some cases, Aboriginal cultures in Australia, for example,
Way before the advent of things like money,
Uh, you know, the payment of rent for shelter, all those kinds of things.
And by raising this, I don't mean we should all abandon our homes and all currency and go back to a
nomadic lifestyle, but I do mean that if we can manage to, uh,
achieve small degrees of cooperation,
a little bit like what, uh, Rick was saying a moment ago.
Um, that we can… that we can collectively create abundance, much more than we think we can. That abundance is…
is kind of at hand in how we think of resources and stewardship versus ownership and other things like that.
Kevin and Kalia and Jose,
We just did a little lightning round a moment ago about what we think abundance means.
if it was a bumper sticker, kind of a really short phrase,
a bumper sticker or sentence, if you'd like to take a swing at that, we'd love to hear what you think abundance means. You can also pass.
Cool, got some specifics there. Kalia?
Pooled and shared resources with, uh, mission-focused local investing.
Um, I really like, um…
Something that I've heard as sort of, um, a way…
to get us through the wormhole that we're in, which is abundant enoughness.
Like, there's a…
Really a significant…
challenge, where…
People who have a lot, a lot are…
continue to want a lot, and like…
Like, how do people get into their nervous system? Like, they actually have enough, and they don't need to, like, accumulate more, and they can…
choose to, like, co-create community together, because I'm in a bunch of circles…
Where… like, people…
Including this one. People say lots of nice things. Where's our community? Where some of us are living together?
Um…
you know, I mean, anyway, so abundant enoughness as a kind of frame that is a…
sense of being that we can get into, so then that…
people… those with resources are actually aligning and
You know, and also, how are those people with resources, like, asking deeper questions about why are people hoarding?
Well, they're hiding for good reason, so how do we help meet their needs without the need to hoard?
Thanks, Goya. Um, Jose, did you want to…
Jump in with a short…
I, um… to be honest, I'm not sure what abundance means.
Um…
It's… it seems to be a good…
catchphrase that we've all picked up, and a lot of us are talking about.
But, um…
I think abundance comes from technology, for the most part.
whatever technology that means.
Right? Social technology, physical technology, artifacts.
Um…
Is that what we mean by… by it? I don't know. I struggle with really sort of grasping what abundance means in these contexts.
Thank you, Jose. Um, and I'll just add, there's a book from 2010 by Juliet Shore titled Plenitudes, The New Economics of True Wealth.
Which plays with that notion that abundance is too much, that the goal of abundance winds up being a little bit like Peaches posted in the chat.
consumer abundance. He writes, The Paradox of Abundance. We live in a world where we have a practical abundance of many things,
food technology consumer goods, but overabundance of some, uh, for some people can cause addiction, affliction, disease,
And the abundance isn't well distributed. Many people are starving and without basic needs. Totally agree.
And so there's, like, this mirage that we all desire abundance, and I'm…
I'm interested in Kalia's hack of the brain of,
How do we convince more people that when they've got enough,
It's good. They're gonna be fine, they're gonna be fine. More might actually even be damaging in different ways, either to them, or their family, or society. We don't know.
But clearly, society is not very oriented in that way.
With that, I will turn to the hands queue.
And go to GIL.
Yep. Yep.
notable to me that until Pete's ad in the chat, none of us was talking about abundance as being lots of stuff.
Mm-hmm.
And I'll echo for those who came in later, my comment at the beginning was to reach back to a Jewish wisdom text called Pirkeavot, The Wisdom of the Ancestors.
That asks, who is rich, the person who is content with their lot.
Which I think is the mood of a lot of the comments, uh, that I've heard here. Jerry, you're, um…
Uh, you're framing had a lot of moving parts in it, but I just want to pick up on the books. I haven't read either of them either. I know that I really need to read Ezra Klein because of where it is in the contemporary dialogue.
Uh, but I'm really struck by how
how off the debate over too much regulation versus too little regulation is. Uh, we, all of us, depend on it, and there's too much in many places. I mean, I live in Berkeley, I know a little bit about housing regulation being a pain in the ass.
But, you know, these things happen because people built buildings that fell down on people's heads and were fire traps and et cetera. So, you know, that's part of what the Commons does, is set boundaries.
of what we do together.
Uh, and so… and I've had, in my professional work, I've had a bit to do with intelligent regulation.
Where, um…
Where businesses can actually embrace it, because it provides certainty and clarity, and not burdensome paperwork barriers to getting things done, but makes things work better. And it's a question of
how we're designed, and by whom and for what.
Uh, so, it's an example of just, you know,
And I don't know if I'm… I don't know if I'm accurately blaming Klein for this, I generally like his work, but I'm surprised by what I hear about this
this book as being, you know, a kind of, you know, maybe a seriously misframed argument.
Which is part of what I was hoping we would sort of touch in this conversation. Thanks for putting that on the table, Gil.
Uh, John?
Yeah, this isn't a… well, I'll just say, um…
I'm… I'm interested also in the connection, and this goes back to Kalia's comment, is…
Um, the term affluence, which, you know, has gotten a little bit of a…
bad association, like, with affluenza and that kind of thing, but…
Like, you go back to the origins of affluence and its abundant flow.
And so I think, I think when you're talking about abundance, it's also…
important, you know, to think of that verb element of it, you know, the flow, um…
of abundance versus the hoarding of abundance, I think, is a real key.
Um…
And I think it's… I think it's interesting, you know, how words… the meanings of words change over time, but with the origin of affluence, affluence…
You know, that's… there's a fluid flow, you know, element to that, and so…
the idea of, in today's culture, where affluence,
You know, the mental picture that may come to mind is this hoarding, you know, accrual type of thing is not what that…
what that term was originally.
you know, pointing to it all, so I think that's important.
I love that. Thank you, John. And I think abundant flow, the perception of abundant flow, is what causes people to relax,
And think maybe they don't need to hoard.
So, seeing that there's more than enough for everybody in whatever the resource is that they're talking about,
I think lets people relax, so there's… there's, I think, a bunch of nuance there about
what we perceive to be available,
How durable we think it'll be, you know, all that kind of thing. Gil, I think your hand is still up from earlier.
Uh, so I'll go to class.
Yeah, I think that what we perceive abundance depends very much on.
On our personal position to it, our… the way we… we… see ourselves and the world around us, because there's no way that.
Physical goods and physical well-being can… is… will ever be evenly distributed. There will always be… Some who have more than others.
Um, but the… the… both… both in the New Testament way of thinking, in Buddhism.
You know, it's about how you position yourself within the world around you.
So the notion of suffering, you know, you cause yourself to suffer by.
By wanting, you know, by wishing to have, and so on.
And so… so I think it's… it's… it's a very unique concept.
On a very individual level.
And also has really interesting complications on a cultural, societal level around the world.
There are lots of, I think, different perceptions of it, that only a few of which were probably
aware of in different ways.
Uh, Jesse, please.
Thanks, Eric. Can you repeat that statement that you said about abundance without trust?
Can you repeat that?
Sure, uh, scarcity equals abundance minus trust, meaning
That's right.
Meaning, humans knew how to create abundance, but it took trust to do it.
So when you… when you squish out the trust in those systems, you get scarcity.
And then capitalism, by the way, loves scarcity. I went to business school where they teach you that scarcity equals value.
Yeah.
And what they mean, partly, is that unless there's scarcity, there's no business model, so you better create some scarcity, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, and I never… I never liked that framing at all.
Yeah, thank you for that. And then John's, um, version of, of without hoarding, it seems like that statement could be used without hoarding as well. Um, and you said something about if you have enough,
Um, then there's no… maybe there's no tendency to, and I heard this story of a person
overseas, who was with someone who was panhandling, I don't know the word these days, but…
Um, and he… he was in the more poorer part of the neighborhood.
And he said, um, he walked by, and he's like, why don't you just go up the street in the richer part of the neighborhood? And he's like, oh, I've done that. They don't give as much.
And so, I'm seeing that people, when you get enough, it's not enough ever. It's, like, evolutionary.
And also, I want to bring up the book that was given to me the other day called Pendulum.
And, um, it's like every 40 years, we go from me to we, and not the me to we that we know of, but a different kind of, um, cooperative version of life.
That, um, was spoken about, um, to more of individualism, and it's like a system, this just pendulum that's kind of, we're in it, and we're, um…
not necessarily everywhere in the world, I guess, but definitely in America. I can see that.
Thank you. John, please.
I just wanna… just wanna riff off what Klaus said and what you said, Jerry, about scarcity equals abundance minus trust. In my experience, scarcity can also equal abundance minus awareness.
gave a presentation to a group of agricultural
producers up in Walla Walla, um, a year ago,
Where I went through this whole thing of the hydrographs, the streamflow, the amount of water flowing through the watershed.
And I finished my presentation, and…
It was silent, and then this one guy spoke up and said, I don't… I don't know that I believe what you just said.
And, I mean, it's like, there was no conjecture or anything in it. It was just all, you know, streamflow gauges and mathematics and whatnot.
But it drove home to me…
Like, here I had this…
pretty clear picture in my mind of the abundance
And these other guys in the room, like, didn't have that mental picture at all.
And I think trust is an issue there, but upstream of trust is, like, if you're not even aware of the abundance, or as Klaus said, if you're…
your perspective, you're seeing the system like you don't have water, then water is scarce. If you have plenty of water.
Water is abundant, and I agree, I agree with that.
Thank you. Um, there's a bunch of interesting
interlocking concepts here. Klaus was putting in the chat.
about Tanha and Santuti.
different concepts, I think, from Sanskrit.
And there's also a parigrapha, which is non-grasping, so it's similar. And these are all…
Um, these are sort of Paragraja is one of the Yamas, or abstinences, of yoga, of original yoga from Patanjali.
Yoga was a mental practice for a long, long, long time before it was a physical practice with asanas.
And it has really good advice for living.
It's really nicely done.
And if more of us paid attention to some of the presets there, maybe we would have
more abundance collectively.
I'm also struck with, uh…
water, um, um, there's a name for this sort of watershed management. There's a different word for it, but
working your land with swales and other kinds of things so that
You have your land catches and holds, retains more water.
than industrially farmed land or other kinds of lands do. And that creates an abundance of water on your property.
Dave Witzel and his wife Claudia and I visited Jumping Frogs Farms in… way above Petaluma many, many years ago.
And, uh, we were talking to the two… the couple who own the farm, and they said, you know, there was really bad rainstorm last season,
And, uh, I was sitting at home reading a book by the fireplace, and I got a call from a neighbor who said,
Oh my gosh, oh my gosh, do you guys need help?
And all their neighbors were industrial farmers.
And the neighbor was like, oh my gosh, oh my gosh, do you need help? We're flooding, we have all kinds of bad things happening. And she described to us how
Um, they had a bunch of ponds and a bunch of very absorbent land on their property. Nothing bad was happening to their property because
It was equipped to actually soak in really nice rains, and she was not worried. She was busy, like, enjoying reading a book.
So that's a form of abundance. Jesse, can you say a little bit more about Pendulum?
Oh, uh, well, the core theory is that
Um, there's two extremes that we oscillate from me, periods of, like, individual, like, self-focused.
And we periods that are collective and community-focused.
And this pattern is kind of like a 40-year swing between those extremes.
Um, and we're, like, there's a fulcrum of…
Where the early 2000s,
And the early 60s make opposite ends.
And it's kind of reflected in music.
Um, and art trends, and those societal swings are…
like, just 10-year periods where they behave in predictable ways.
And it traces back all the way back 3,000 years.
And they kind of say how the East reflects the West.
40 years behind, kind of thing, so I'm not sure. I haven't, like, read the whole book, but it was an interesting concept. It seems like it's mathematical, but, you know, everything's not predictable and human.
But that's… it was an interesting thing.
To see.
Lovely, thank you for sharing that. I hadn't heard about the book, and um…
really, uh…
It's interesting. How is it… it was written in 2012, how has it not gotten more attention?
Well, I would definitely look at it and, you know, see maybe why, but I haven't found it
Yeah.
I went… I didn't go deep enough to figure that out, but I see that there might be business implications for
you know, why successful politicians or entertainers succeed?
Um, based on the pendulum swing that we're in?
like, certain music and certain words, like, I'm starting to hear the same kind of music that we did in the 70s right now, and there's, like, the bell bottoms, we came back, and…
Um, it was a brief thing, but, you know, it just is interesting.
It's enough to be like, uh-huh.
There's… yeah, exactly.
And there's a whole class of literature on cyclical theories of history.
Uh, from the Great Transition to the fourth turning to, I don't know, there's like a… this is a whole class of literature, but this one seems like a really pragmatic explanation. I was like, well, things here, here, this is how things swing.
Yeah, and, like, it's weird that, you know, we have this community-centered purpose, like, how can I serve?
is, you know, a very strong book at one point that aligns with that we society, um,
But… I don't know, what is Trump? Like…
Love that. Yeah, thanks for bringing the book to our attention. I really appreciate it.
the addition of the conversation. Stacy.
Yeah, so if I can just start from where I am and connect to what a lot of you have said, and Jerry.
Total… I think you're spot on with… I know you're spot on with the trust thing.
But I want to mention how. Media and billionaires, and the…
Conflicting stories are eroding that trust and how it pertains to now.
Kalia put a comment in about the need for housing. And free transit, and um…
A lot of the conversations I have are around what's happening in New York City with Mondani.
And I just want to read to you one of the comments that I got in my private messages.
Because it ties into some other things that are happening that have to do with free speech.
And all the other cultural things that are happening. That the media is a big part of.
So this is the message I got. You cunt whole Arab lover, cunt.
Get the fuck out of New York. That scumbag will not be mayor, you cunt.
This is just one of many. That I get quite frequently.
Great, Scott.
Stacy, why do you… why do you stay for that?
That being said.
I'm speaking, excuse me. Um, people get this all the time.
And free speech is a very big issue. I know from speaking to people in other states.
I know from my friends in Florida that there were tanks that drove by.
In Black neighborhoods that were meant to intimidate people. Into not voting.
I'm very clear on what's been happening for years. And I'm very clear that nobody's gonna shut me up.
I was out the other night, and somebody… a friend came up to me and hugged me, and she said.
Am I going to get put on a list? And she said it half-jokingly, but we weren't really joking.
Um, anyway, what I wanted… so I got into conversation, and my conversations now are mostly local, and by… So, I put up a post, and it was about Cat Stevens tickets being $632.
Because the argument I get from. People that are affluent in my community is.
All the businesses are going to leave New York City. If we elect Mendani.
I'm sorry, this is my new foster dog, and there's a story behind him, too.
Hmm, okay.
Um… So, I have people that are now defending the billionaires, and they're afraid that the billionaires are going to leave New York City.
If, heaven forbid, we have affordable housing and free transportation. This gives me an opportunity to speak to them.
The gentleman that posted that. I then took his post.
And publicly put it right up there. Because after I looked through his page and saw all of his Jesus quotes.
I wanted the community to see who this guy is. I'm not afraid of him.
So, in answer to your question, Gil, I keep doing it.
Because I know that there are good people on both sides, especially in my community.
And I know that there was a lot of manipulation. Um, very quick short story that will also answer that, if I may.
Well, maybe… You know, I'm gonna stop, take care of the dog.
And then hopefully I'll get the opportunity to speak again later.
Cool. Um, thank you.
Yeah, let me do that, thank you.
Uh, Kevin?
Yeah, abundance. So I'm doing a thing to create it. I'd like to describe, if I could for a minute.
Uh, you know, we lost our house. It's actually in the phrase, uninhabitable. We didn't lose it. It could be redone.
And 1 in 6 people in my neighborhood, I just want to know, are low status, unincorporated neighborhood.
Lost their houses. Higher… highest of anything in the… in the Southeast, and um…
So we're gonna do a non-profit housing fund. And because it's a non-profit.
It means everybody can talk about it, and so, you know, a PTA officer can talk to a volleyball coach about it.
And it'll be community-directed capital, and the community will get more money back than the affluent people who write big checks.
And so we're going to use that to help this low-status neighborhood have a seat at the table.
And there's starting a Latino business association, just the population grew by 18%, and it was the cheapest place, so… It's a lot of Latino, but there's no…
Clarified way for aid groups to write them a check. The Restaurant Association had an association, and so there was a restaurant.
Employee support fund, but the food trucks and caterers and Latino folks, there was no place to write a check, so they're creating an entity to be at the table, and it matters right now.
Because there are these small area plans being put out, and that's, like.
Redesigning this place after the disaster, right? And one of them is the counties, and it's broad, and it's messy.
And… but then there's a separate small area plan that's competing to be the story, and it's led by people with the Chamber of Commerce and realtors, and they only do outreach to Latinos, you know, on one occasion or whatever. But obviously, they're… they would cause displacement.
Right? Because they're… they're motivated. For increasing property values, and increasing property values puts the people who were at risk of.
Because it's a place people already fled to. It's $100,000 less per house than the rest of the county, so more Latino, more… Black folks that got, uh, pushed away. And so we're going to create a political power using a fund, and then the fund will also have to increase biodiversity, because everybody's house is at risk because the ground got scoured.
So we have dead soil, and you need biodiversity to hold the soil to reduce the housing risk, so we can… we can, you know, we can… we can measure the housing success by the health of the river.
And then along with a number of people who are housed. So I think it's going to be a real popular story.
And uh… and we got a whole lot of the partners engaged, and I got, you know, the best community organizer says this is a really good plan, and… And folks who are, you know.
There's a real credible community group that we're designing it for.
Uh, called Suenovo Communities Together, and they're the… Social safety net below everybody else, you know, when you have no rent or utility bill, you go to them, and they do it about $60,000.
A month, they've done that really good job, and they realize, well, we need to solve housing, you know.
400 people lost their houses, so, uh, so we're gonna start with housing and create biodiversity.
So I think it should be pretty fun, and you know, might even include my house, who knows, you know?
So… just… and this should be fun.
Kevin, thank you for describing that. It is just curious,
Is that activity convincing you to stay closer to spontanoa? Because I think you've been pulled… you've been pulling…
You've been pulling yourselves away from Svanoa because it's just been so sad?
Yeah, it… Yeah, you know, that's interesting, because we moved to the River Arts District, which is a highly, uh…
Access place, you know, it's… it's where the artists are, and they want to be more like this road in Santa Fe, where rich folks come and buy art, and they don't live in the loss of being displaced is not a problem, and so the Chamber of Commerce and the Tourism Development is.
All behind the artists who were taking their, their… well-resourced artists taking their future in their hands, and so it's, like, not much for me to do.
And then this came along, that somebody reached out and said, you know.
Could you use some of this neighborhood economic stuff around the problems we're trying to address? You know, they're trying to do.
Food and housing and transportation, but housing is the one that's making everything worse.
So we're gonna, you know, they lead their Latino and biracial and all that, and, you know, we're designing it for this really trusted community entity.
That has, you know, housing groups around it, mountain home, mountain housing and habitat, and… land trusts, you know, all kinds of big stakeholder resources around it.
But I don't think nobody's ever measured, uh, you know, low-income housing to… reducing risk by biodiversity, so I think that's kind of an intriguing, uh.
Question that we want to do both of those things.
I love that. Thanks, Kevin. And then you're making me wonder many things, one of which is,
Why aren't property and casualty insurance companies all over this? Why aren't they all into
So, the ecological ways to reduce
environmental risks, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. They should be…
They should be promoting, funding, explaining
storytelling, everything, and all they're really doing is, like, calculating
you know, calculating stats and then raising rates.
or pulling out of dangerous reasons… regions, because… but it's uninsurable.
We did what we could. We raised rates as far as we could, and then it's, you know, uninsurable. That maybe I'm just not perceiving their efforts, but…
Yeah. Yeah, we have some startups who were doing community embedded insurance. You know, you're not able to, uh, make a profit on, uh.
Property. Now, with climate things. It needs to be collectively owned, and the return goes back into reducing risk. That model makes sense, you know.
Extract your profits, you know, in property insurance is short-term, and you need to put it into something that will.
Be there when things go worse, you know. So, we're linking in, uh.
Community-embedded insurances. You know, people are pooling and sharing their resources together, sharing risk.
So,
So, you know, and then the community owns the balance sheet.
Yeah, yeah, so let me pull on one more thing you said, which is, it seems like, um, terrible climate events are making places
Uninsurable or uninvestable as real estate, which is driving
The collective… not collectivization, but community land trusts. Basically, the restructuring of ownership or stewardship of land
Yeah, yep.
Which is a good thing.
Yeah. The one session I'm, uh, moderating is the one that puts all weird stuff together. It's collective purchasing, and it's the library of things from Shareable.
And it's a real grassroots crowdfunding, and so what if you just pooled and shared your resources, but then you found a way to.
For the community to invest alongside your pooling and sharing. I mean, nobody's done that, and that would be a… a really easy, you know, uh… too adhesive approach. We're looking for some of these things that you could launch together, where if you launch one.
It helps the other. And some of those things are happening.
You know, there is infrastructure coming, you know, and uh… Sure.
Thank you, that was great. Really, um, super… I love what you're… what you're working on.
Uh, Stacy, please.
Yeah.
I think it should be fun.
I have a very cynical, conspiratorial answer to your question about insurance companies.
And that is that I do believe they want people to lose their properties.
So that they can be bought up. Very simple.
I can smell the cynicism on that one. Thanks, Stacey.
Uh, Pete?
I wanted to chime in with some thoughts about that answer, too. As Stacy, I really like yours, and I think that happened, certainly.
I think there's also a structural thing in the way that we run our economy, and hierarchical
hierarchical…
corporate entities and their decision-making. Um, I think it's… it's easy for people on the ground to see a situation and go, you know, there's a…
a thoughtful, system-friendly approach to
Um, making the situation better.
But when you report to somebody who reports to somebody who reports to somebody, it goes up to the boardroom, and the…
upper management, and they don't… they don't have that same nuance of decision-making.
So, I think… I think we see over and over…
big hierarchical, uh, corporate structures make really dumb decisions, not because…
It's the best kind of decision to make, but we've rewarded the creation of these big, dumb hierarchical things that are…
theoretically kind of easy to manage, um, and… and just accrete size.
Uh, so… so, of course, they make dumb decisions, um, uh, instead of thoughtful systems-friendly approaches to situations on the ground.
Thank you. Um, I… I…
I would love to hear from four-sighted…
business folks who are doing the opposite somewhere, that would be great. It'd be a…
Our joy to my heart to have people jump into this conversation who are like, no, no, no, we had this initiative, we did this thing,
Look, look, look, it's, you know, all over the place, but…
I'm not… I'm not seeing it yet.
It's a very interesting conversation. Thanks for asking.
Jesse?
Um, while I'm working on one.
Excellent.
Talking… talking with the city of Seattle, I'm talking with, um, cooperatives, and we're starting to visualize, um,
Uh, place-based resources, not just talent, but also goods and services, so we can match them and start… I realize that when we start visualizing these resources, you can start seeing the gaps that Stacy starts seeing, um, you know,
When you verbalize that, that's one thing, but when you have… when you can… when you can visualize the dumb decisions,
And start looking at data-informed decisions, um, visualization really helps. So, Kevin…
I have lots of people who are Stanford Housing. It doesn't sound like you have an actual…
You have everyone you need at the table for housing, um, but as we move away from conceptual definitions of abundance,
to meeting people's needs in a specific place-based community.
I sincerely believe that visualization of talents and goods and services
supports the needs of that community, and I would love to support and talk with you
Yeah.
Um, because when we're working with land trusts, that's a perfect example of utilizing the fingers of
Um, the people that they're working with.
Yeah.
And so I'll just place… I'll put the mapping project we're putting down
Yeah. I would love to talk to you about that. You know, I've done some pretty serious mapping out. I was telling this story, if I can tell you a brief mapping story, it's kind of interesting, I think.
I was working with Mark Beam, as some of you know, and Gary Bowles.
And we were mapping, uh, the distribution of malaria nets in Uganda.
Link to the Global Fund on AIDS and, uh, you know, etc.
Yes.
And we were able to show that the nets were going to where Musandi's cronies were, as opposed to where the malaria area. There's a gray market in it.
And, you know, I was working with Jeffrey Sachs, which you should never do, at the ERSE Institute, and he said, you know, I'm going to hold up $40 million to Ms. Venney, and they said.
Dude, we move millions a year. You know, 70… $30 million is not going to make us have a conscience, you know? We won't take your money. We're taking everybody else's money, don't worry about it. And so he didn't realize that.
Showing clearly that they were wrong. Would not make them… change their behavior at all, because the guy misread the power in the room. I mean, that's the problem with Jeffrey Sachs. He lives in this abstract world where he thought $30 million was gonna make a billionaire.
Yeah.
Gravel. So anyway, yeah, no, I believe in mapping. I think this really needs it.
And working with the Uganda, I'm working with someone right now who, um,
They haven't had food. You know, aid was removed from President Trump.
Um, they haven't had food for two and a half weeks.
And they're like…
they don't… they're not a resilient, self-efficient, um,
Yeah.
And so, um, all they need is used cooking oil to create soap so they can create hygiene and have the business angle that he's going on.
But right now, it's just like food. They don't have it. Two and a half weeks now.
It's just really… it's… it's saddening, so…
All right, that's do it.
Wow. I'd love to talk to you later in October when my conference is coming up, like, in 3 days, about visualization for this project when I get back home. I think it's really important, yeah, there's a lot of… stories you can… because there's trails with markers and things here, right? I mean, so you could embed.
Your content, you know, along this trail with this story. I mean, this is, you know, this trail is where the first massacre was, you know.
That kind of thing. So, yeah, there's a lot of it.
Yeah, because, you know, people are doing greenways. There's a lot of money for greenways, and the greenways get markers, and there's QR codes, etc. There's stories you could, uh… Yeah, because the housing fund will be lower risk if we're more biodiverse. So, you know, that's… people want to picture those two things together.
Thanks, guys. Um…
Gil?
Yeah, I love the conversation about mapping, both physical mapping and systems mapping, and causal loops, and all sorts of ways of helping people see and perceive the complexity they know. There's a guy named Scott Spann,
Uh, who's done remarkable work with multi-stakeholder community mapping, where people, a large group of people, build the maps together.
Um, and, um, you know, there'll be a… there'll be a starting… maybe a starting point, hypothetical map, and the question is, okay, what… what in your world are you not seeing on the wall? Put it on.
And they keep doing that until it's a complete representation of all the stakeholders in the community. It's driven some remarkable
projects of transformation. Kevin, I want to connect you up with him.
Uh, after the conference, perhaps. And, uh, I'd love to
be in this conversation you guys are having. Back on the insurance… excuse me,
Back on the insurance theme,
Um, you know, we see this really starkly in the aftermath of the LA fires, where the state's response was, let's lighten the regulations so people can rebuild faster.
Rather than, let's have regulations that has people…
Bye, Kevin. That has… that encourages people to build buildings that are fire resilient.
Uh, and we've all seen pictures of earthquakes where entire neighborhoods are flattened and one house is still standing.
Uh, or floods, where somebody sort of, you know, there's a community in Florida that survived the hurricane, the last round of hurricanes, completely intact.
Because of their land use planning, sponge, you know, sponge land use, resilient buildings, and so forth.
There are ways at that, and there's an opportunity for insurance. The precedent was 100 and some odd years ago in Fireman's Fund, which was doing business safety insurance.
started to provide free safety audits for the businesses they were insuring to come in and show them how to reduce their risk.
At no cost to the businesses, and, you know, crazy like a fox for Fireman's Fund, because it meant less payouts for damage for them.
And that's a model that has been, you know, mostly honored in the breach in the industry since then, but there's enormous opportunity.
For strategic insurance play. Joshua Harrison from the Center for the Study of the Force Majeure and I and our GPTs are working on some white papers on laying out a different kind of insurance, business-focused insurance industry strategy, whereby companies could do the kind of things we're talking about.
Rather than just saying, oh, no, the calculations say we can't insure you so we can write off entire states.
When screw you. Very different approach.
You know?
Um, we're going at warp speed. We haven't even hit the hour yet. Why don't we slow down for a second?
And uh… take a pause, and I'll bring us back in just a second.
Just reflecting on the… I'm looking at the chat a little bit, and this conversation, and I'm realizing that
there… there seem to be, from my amateur perspective, many things we've created as
policy, law, regulation,
that lead to scarcity or break abundance. One of those is zoning.
One of those, for example, is we created wilderness areas and national parks where we drove people who understood how to manage the landscape off the land.
We don't, you know, don't let people live in there.
Which I think is a mistake.
And we're now, in some places, they're reconsidering the mistake and thinking, oh, maybe we should reverse track on that, but…
It's only a couple hundred years… it's 100 years plus too late.
Um, on those things, but it seems like we bake
We make a lot of decisions
that aren't based on…
rational, systemic thinking, then we bake those in as laws, and then we, you know,
50 years later go, gosh, that didn't turn out so well.
And I don't like that we do that as societies.
Alright, Klaus, please.
Yeah, the conversations just sparked, uh, something… we signed a contract with this co-pier, the, uh.
Akuli generations, and they are headquartered in Kenya, in Nairobi. Um, and the intention is to connect, um.
To connect local farmers, groups of local farmers, with resources that are available.
Within the EU, mostly, in mostly EU-funded, but also. Within… within Africa.
So they have… they already have 40 locations mapped out in Indonesia, different African states, and a couple, uh.
Mediterranean countries, they are providing the AI intelligence. Technology embedded in their… in their system.
And I'm, you know, personally developing. A strategic frame on how to engage, but the challenge here really is.
That the, um… It requires a change in behavior of subsistence farmers.
Um, they have to combine them, first of all, into groups, because.
A small farmer is just not cost-effective to… to represent in any form or shape, so we are combining.
Groups of farmers into, like, a hundred of them. They are governed by elders, it's a non-hierarchical system.
That's all secured through the management structures. Um, and by combining them.
And then consolidating their behavior, meaning we are developing. A regenerative practice that's… that's…
Cook, that's the right one for their location and for their markets.
Meaning the types of cops they're coin, the methods they're using.
Are going to be uniquely tailored to their particular location. We can then tokenize this.
Put it in contract forms. Organize it, and then bring it back to…
The European Union, uh, uh. Agencies know that, uh, that are distributing these funds.
So there's a… there's a pretty disciplined, uh. Requirement for this entire contracting scheme and for the entire MRV.
I mean, missionments, reporting and values structure that goes with it.
But I think the… the… The real challenge is that we have… we are floating.
You know, at the theoretical and policy level. Um, with some great ideas, lots of money in there.
But there's the vertical… link missing, you know, how do you… how do you operationalize this, uh, on the ground?
Um, so we… so the AI system that we now have developed, now it's a 5-agent, uh.
System that tracks the entire supply chain from farm to market.
Um, and then… then there's a sixth agent, it's the enterprise agent, where we are customizing to.
A specific location. Uh, to, to, uh… to then know what is going on in…
In these… in these individual account… accounting groups. Um, but that's really, uh, in general, you know, the…
It doesn't help to, uh, to what USAID did, for example, is buy food from American farmers.
And put it into, uh, subsistence markets. That doesn't help, because the moment your food goes away, the whole system collapses, right?
Um, there was no attempt. To assist these subsistence groups.
To become self-sufficient, and to grow their own food. Now, and to, uh, and so the emphasis is on, let's sell them GMO seeds, which is actually really what happened.
You know, Bill Gates all over the place, building synthetic nitrogen fertilizer plants in Africa.
So the type of help that was given. Was really very selfish, you know? I mean, it was… it was not, uh, let's make these guys.
Independence, or they can live. So that's… that's the overarching, you know.
Strategic intent that we have, you know, is to connect these available resources.
You know, with on-the-ground activity.
Thanks, Klaus. I've heard some much more positive stories about development aid, because there have been some thorough and eviscerating critiques of development aid,
you know, hey, we ship food in and the local farmers can't make a living anymore, et cetera, et cetera, but I think that
somewhere in some places, and I don't know who, where, it's more nuanced than that, and they have been trying to teach
Farmers to, you know, bootstrap farmers to get back into business, et cetera, et cetera. I don't…
I don't know that it's as vicious as it just sounded from what you just said.
Is it that bad?
It is vicious, as I was just saying. It is horrible. I mean, they destroyed entire landscapes with GMO seeds and…
And since that ignited nitrogen, inserting synthetic nitrogen into the arena.
Was just, I mean, it's just criminal. And this is how often Bill Gates. And I don't submit bad intentions to someone like Bill Gates. He probably thought he's doing the right thing.
He's actually embedded, he's a major investor in Monsanto. You know, it's actually embedded with these groups, and developing customized high-yield seeds, and…
You know, the chemical support structure, but it is… it was just devastating. And you're dealing with completely uneducated.
Subsistence farmers. Uh, you know, and you don't have the extensions and all that support.
So, no, it's, uh, it's… but Africa is absolutely waking up.
Now, to, uh, to what happened to them, and to make these changes, so… We are actually partnered with the University of Nairobi Extension.
To, uh, uh, where they are guiding the process and providing us the credentials that we need in order to, you know, be packaged as, uh.
Up the chain.
Thank you. Uh, Doug, please.
Muted.
Just to augment the Bill Gates ironies, um… So, his big thing were these… these nets.
Mosquito netting. In service to, you know, addressing the malaria problem.
But as Klaus just mentioned. He's up to his neck in Monsanto.
And… A friend of mine, Bernie Krause, who was a bio…
Ecological bioacoustician. Um, you know, pointed out that.
Um, those chemicals are eradicating. Amphibians, frogs.
Frogs eat mosquitoes. Like, if you want to go natural systems, and you want to go.
Regenerative, and you want to go non-colonial, non-patriarchal, non-capitalist. And actually speak to needs and problems.
Um. That is not what Bill Gates is in the business of doing.
Or any of them, for that matter. The billionaires, you know, are… Centered in their billions, or centered in capital.
And everything they do is centered in capital and monopolization of.
Which now extends to food. And GMO seed, and all of it.
Um, I wanted to loop back around. But, Pete, if you wanted to be on this subject, then I'll stop here.
And come back after you. Um, because I wanted to loop back around to… Something that was raised.
Go ahead, Doug.
Um, so… somebody mentioned, um, causal loop mapping.
And so, I'm… I'm… at the genesis point, so this is really early, but…
Some of you know Gene Bellinger, who's sort of, you know, the GOAT of.
Causal loop mapping and model making very complex systems. And, um… And he did a Klaus.
With causal loop mapping and AI. And he sort of developed, you know.
Version 1 of a… of an AI template to augment his causal…
Mapping exercise. And it sort of caught my eye, because…
Um, causal loop mapping… done properly, human-mediated. This is not automating.
Causal loops analysis. But it's… it… augmenting it with AI dramatically speeds it up.
And also holds, at the end of the process, holds the… the promise of surfacing causes and things, variables.
That, um, the person doing the mapping might have missed, but.
It's because of the volume of data and speed, it makes connections.
Right? So we can deepen the… the richness of the output.
Well, in parallel to that. Um, I've been working in folks who have frameworks addressing the soft stuff, which is…
The human, the emotional. Dimensions of people.
Co-creating together, and also people engaged in dealing with. Crisis areas and challenges, global challenges.
And so… Um, there's a… there's a possibility.
To stir into genes, causal loop mapping is dealing with nouns. It's dealing with the physical world, it's dealing with.
You know, all of the mechanistic Industrial Revolution-oriented ingredients of a system.
Um, and… but, uh, there's a guy named Bill Smith who has a… a framework called AIC Appreciation.
Influence and control. Which is a rather elaborate framework, but applicable in a very systems-oriented way.
That speaks to… purpose, and power.
So, as an informing inquiry into guiding decision making. Factoring for those dimensions.
So the balancing act between. Appreciation, which is sort of, you know, the ideal and the goal, the source, the…
Purpose end of it, and then control is the mechanics and the doing, and the machinery.
And the infrastructure and the what, where, when, why. Um, so I believe that framework could be integrated into Gene's mapping to factor for those dimensions.
So that's piece number two. Piece number three… is somebody who we just lost, a guy named Barry Court.
And Barry was unique. He was a systems guy. And one of his things was.
Emotion in education. And he developed a framework for integrating the emotional dimensions.
Sort of enabling a valuing weighting of them. As variable.
Framework plugin within other analytical contexts. And I think that could also be integrated into this causal loop mapping.
So now we're starting to actually. Three-dimensionally, four-dimensionally.
Expand the nature of the inquiry and the analysis. In looking at complex system dynamics and what's really going on.
And then, you know, clearly, why? Like, what's all this about?
So, Danella Meadows, right, who's known for. Finding the concept of.
Leverage points. So you have a cause loop map, you know, like genes… one of Gene's greatest, grandest was the Middle East.
Like, 5,000 nodes. It was insane and magnificent. But, like, what are the nodes.
That hold the potential. For the most impact, in terms of where do you target.
And Danella Meadows sort of surfaced that concept of leverage points.
So, if we could do this richer mapping, factoring for the human and the being dimensions.
And we can then identify leverage points, and we can have the output of that.
Provide guidance and insight. To inform and enable better decision-making on a policy level.
Or on a financial funding and resource level. Or on a multi-stakeholder level, maximizing across.
All of those dimensions. You know, start to have something.
Now, with all of that said, you know, enter yours truly.
Um. So, to go to the metaphor, the still picture to motion pictures?
So, because of the speed and robustness of AI's capability as an enabling technology, not a source or driver.
Now take everything I just said and imagine that as a running.
Process. With the variable inputs on the front end being real-time.
So, it's an exponential leveling up. Of… and creating a mechanism for a living, real-time causal loop analysis mapping.
Tracking of leverage points, tracking of changes. I think it's possible to build this.
Um, and I'm at the beginning. And I welcome anybody that wants to… you know, like, sign on and help.
Um, because I'm not a… I'm not Pete. Like, I wish I was you, Pete. I'm not you.
Alas, none of us is Pete. I don't know how that works.
Like a technology-wise, you know. I'm… I'm… yeah, I'm a diligent.
Only Pete is Pete.
You know, I'm a dilettante, I'm not, like… I don't… you know, I have a clear vision of the technologies involved in the pieces. I don't think it's that complicated.
In terms of anything needing to be invented, it's really about just… pressing it all into place in service.
But anyway, um… I really think we… you know, if possible.
It would be really great to level up. The dimensionality of the inquiry and the analysis, an orientation being brought.
To these contacts. So, I want to end with the last punctuation mark, which is I'm working.
With a woman named Louise McCullen in Ireland, who's focused on.
Survivors of domestic abuse in a woman, um. 30-year-old young lawyer, brilliant woman in, um.
In Nairobi. Uh, same territory, but…
Supporting women coming out the back end in entrepreneurial endeavors and community-level support.
And intermediating with other aid sources and all the rest. The woman in Nairobi, Tessie.
Shared a piece of a puzzle. So she has this nonprofit foundation, she's bootstrapped, she's helping women, she's engaged in.
Rubber meets the road, doing what she's doing. And a problem she shared was that, based on the culture of corruption in Nairobi.
Um, that the women that she's training. To be the care provider, you know, benefits.
Caseworker folk. In her foundation to the women in the community.
Um, have so much distrust that. In her offering to train them to serve the Foundation.
They want to know what's in it for her, like, why is she offering them this for free?
Like, why is she offering to train them? As, you know, like, there's nothing free, like, where are the strings?
And… and I… I raise that just because. What it points to is.
The weak link is always… in humans being human beings.
The weak link is that. People are people, they're not machinery, they're not parts of a machine, they're not cogs.
And the soft dimensions, the cultural dimensions, the fear and belief and deprivation and trauma dimensions.
Make or break it? And 85-90% of everything that exists today.
Doesn't even acknowledge they exist, much less recognize that they're the leverage point.
I apologize for the length of that run, but I'm complete.
Excellent. Thanks, Doug.
Got a lot of things in the room. Appreciate that.
Um, that was great, Doug. No need to order an apology.
Um, and hit me up about, uh, call the loop, um, real-time…
thingy. That sounds fun. Um…
I… since we're on the topic of abundance and… and…
And maybe, in a way, kind of the indigestion that comes
seems to come from it, or lack of, um,
Lack of appropriate distribution or something.
Um, I wanted to make a shout out. I wish Ken were here to say this instead of me. Um, I want to make a shout out to Hospicing Modernity.
Um, the book by Vanessa Andrealdi. If you haven't seen it, she approaches
the thing that we're in, the thing that we've built. She calls it the longer title, the longer name she's got for it is Modernity Slash Coloniality.
Um, she approaches…
modeling where we are,
And then what to think about it, and what to do with that… without paralysis in a way that is different from
anything else I've seen. And so, if you haven't seen it, I think you owe your… owe yourself…
a deep look at, you know, the approach that she's got.
Um, uh, and…
can… doesn't have a lot of time in his life, I think, right now, because he's starting to move, but Ken is kind of a central resource for me in finding out more about the book, and we've got some of us doing
some inquiry about it, um, uh, partly through Signal and other places. Um…
Uh, so that's kind of it.
Thank you, Raj.
We're having abundant thoughts about abundance.
Any other perspectives? You want to bring some other…
some other angle on the question in.
I keep coming back to the notion that
Consumerism creates the illusion of abundance.
that has been…
Entrancing for many people.
Um, there are…
amusing videos on YouTube of North Koreans or people who
grew up in the Soviet Union.
Coming to an American hypermarket, or some other thing, and just seeing
how much stuff there is, how much… how much stuff is available.
Um, I… I some… I haven't been in a department store for a while, but
Last few times I went through, like, the women's… women's… I used to go shopping with my mom a bunch,
the women's clothing areas are just endless racks, and I look around, I'm like,
Hmm, wouldn't wear that, wouldn't wear that, wouldn't like to wear that, that looks ugly. Oh my god, what happened there?
And just acres and acres and acres of stuff out, in the hope that somebody will pick it up and take it home.
buy it with money. Stacey, please.
Stacy, has your… has your cynicism heightened, or dampened a little bit with the call?
Well, that's actually what my comment's about. So, I recognized that my cynicism.
May be a result that, from an energetic point of view.
I am actually where Trump. Begin. I am at the heart.
Of where he began. Where consumerism is, where capitalism is.
I'm in New York City. I know his type, I know the types of the people that surround him.
Probably more than most of you in this room. I also know types like you.
But I grew up around the types of people that he grew up around on all different economic levels.
So that could have a piece of it. Because, as I've said many times.
I can get into his mindset. The difference is, I have a different morality and a different set of ethics.
Which, as we've noted many times, doesn't work as well to be successful in business.
Um, so now to get back to the trust piece of it.
And the leverage points. I've consistently, because I'm in the soft space.
Working on building trust and building bridges. And that's where Romeo comes in.
Romeo is the guy on my lap. Romeo came to me because, um, last week in a NIAC.
Space, a call came out, an urgent need for temporary foster care.
For this adorable little dog. And you guys know how much Marley meant to me, and people keep saying.
Are you going to get another dog? And as much as I loved Marley.
I didn't want the responsibility. I'm loving my life. I'm out 5 nights a week.
I'm on the music scene, I'm independent, I'm like a teenager.
I like it. But… I knew this dog was for me, because.
Nobody's gonna take care of him better than I can. Well, here's the story of Romeo.
Romeo's father. Was picked up by ICE.
As he was dropping his kids off at camp. And because he was the sole provider.
His wife and children. No longer have a home. So until they can find their home.
That accepts dogs. I'm taking care of Romeo.
Now, in my town. Me and Romeo go out and meet people, the way me and Marley used to meet people.
And he's become the ambassador. So I make sure, because I can usually get a sense of where somebody is.
In their heart space, let's say. And so, people that may not have had compassion or empathy.
For Romeo's family. Have total compassion.
For Romia. They also get a different way of looking at the situation.
So, I mean, you might find it amusing if you know who Curtis Sliwa is.
I call him, uh, misogynist. Four-time married vigilante liar, but that's just me. But he's now campaigning.
For animal rights. Which confirms to me what I already knew, that.
These people actually love animals, or many of them, at least the ones that criss-crossed do.
Anyway, the point I'm trying to make… what was the point, is this is Romeo, and he's going to be with me for a while, and.
Hopefully, I'll take some time to write something up on Facebook.
Because that's the world I play in, so Gil, to your point.
Those people know me. I've been speaking there for 10 years.
And whether they like me or hate me. For the most part, the people that know me.
They know that what I'm saying is me. I am true to my character. So whether you like my character, or you hate my character.
You can trust my character. So, for me, it's a matter of trust.
Thanks, Stacey.
Thank you.
Alex?
I'm gonna move slightly away from everything you've said, so… Jess, if you're still on track with this path.
Would you like to speak first, rather than… me, kind of, derailing the conversation somewhat.
No, I wanted to kind of more converge everyone together, so I will go more at the end. Thank you.
Go, Alex.
Okay, let me scatter them, then, the first place. It's very interesting what you've said, and for me, for my mind, the way my mind.
It works, but it was all very interesting, and… The thing that I always… think about, though. I live in a world of…
My mental picture of the world, I should say, is one of… special interests doing their thing.
Biggest special interest is, of course, capitalism. And it pushes and.
Drives in a way that says abundance is… a lot of everything that, as a lot of you have said, is not really needed.
And trying to convince people to step back, even if you try and convince.
5 people to step back, there's another million over there. Doing whatever we don't want them to do, because it's…
Wasting resources, etc. And I just wonder, the way you think, it's actually a question for you guys, is…
We're talking about it, we're saying the right things, and believe the right things.
But how are we going to change anything other than talking about the right things? You know, is it sort of… There's too few of us, there's too few across the world.
And this is a systemic thing, that's all I'll just keep going on about this. The systemic things are pushing in.
And, you know, at the back of my mind, I think.
If you take the Amish as a subculture, sorry, if I use the wrong word, I apologize.
Whatever they are. And then… But there… there's a few of those sort of communities that are…
Are living on the benefit of everybody else. Accepting them, that they are as they are, but…
They're being nurtured, in a way. And that's not how the real world works. And how are we going to change that without being…
Dictatorial about it. Just your thoughts, I don't think we're going to change it, but…
Anybody have any?
Thanks, Thomas. Um, if you have suggestions or answers for Alex, I'm in the queue, please. Let's go to Jesse.
Great question. Um…
I think I, you know, we're asking that every day of ourselves, um, and…
Um, and in order to unify and change the… indeed, the change I wish to see in this call, in this community of Jerry's,
And all us, um, I have continuously tried to map
the intelligence in this room?
It's incredible.
We have 9 people on the OGM room.
Um, Stacy doesn't really, you know, she wanted to have a virtual room that's open 24-7. I created that. It's available, Stacy, let's connect.
I don't want a virtual room, though, I'm sorry.
Well, this is a virtual room, you and me right here in this call, and so I would love to create conversation, because I believe
the answer that you're… you just raised is born out of community. It depends on which community you're in. So, if you're in a local-based community, that answer's different than if you're in an OGM community.
So, depending on who you're with, that answer emerges.
So, I loved the prompt at the beginning of this call.
And the questions were…
answered based on different life stages, different consciousness levels, different needs.
And… and we're just kind of resonating with the world, as we all have different
different perspectives and different needs, but if we wanted to start honing in and converging at least just this community, and see where those touchpoints are, and as, um, Doug was bringing up,
Let's go. I am ready with… to… to soar here, because, um…
Talking is one thing, and um…
And converging and acting as another, so…
I'll put in the link again. And Stacy, you and I, let's talk afterwards and figure out what would work for you, because I want to serve you, and how you are…
You are amazing in community, and I want to… I want your inspiration to be, um, a seed.
Yeah, yes, yes, please.
Thank you. Can I just respond to that really quick? Yeah, let me explain.
This community has served me. This is the virtual world. So, Jesse, what your… what you created.
That's to serve others. I already felt, like… it's… it's almost like going back.
What you're doing, and what I hope I inspired you to create.
Is deconstructing. What I already lived into.
If that makes sense. So, I don't want to go and find a new virtual world to play in.
I'm actually leaving the virtual world. I spent yesterday with Romeo sitting outside the club that I usually go to.
Talking to people. Somebody sat. And was telling me about his memories coming up about 9-11.
Somebody who's more towards the right. And I got to sit with them and talk to them and be in the world.
Yeah.
I… so, my journey's a little different. I am different, so I don't want you to take it the wrong way.
I…
I'm unique, but I… but I love that virtual world. But this was it for me.
Um, Stacy, we're actually talking about the same thing, because I'm trying to get people off the virtual world into their community, into their place space, so…
I'm gonna put this link in here, based on Dunbar Research, it shows that we only need about 50 people in our lives that we are committed to, and they're committed to… I mean, they're committed to us, and there's reciprocation, and if that is there,
In a place-based or digital, you decide.
Um, we can thrive. It shows…
Based on research, we can thrive in smaller communities. And so, um…
Let's talk about that a little bit more, but it's all about getting back into our… into our
community. If it's place-based, yes, for sure.
Yes.
What I would just say is find the people first. And then use those spaces to coordinate.
But find the people that you want to spend time with.
That's the key, that you want to be with.
And that's… that's the link I just put in there, so thank you. And 42 is the meaning of life, so that's why 42.
Cool, thank you. Thank you both.
Um, before going to class, I just want to ask us to use the chat.
to answer Jesse's challenge. It's like, hey, what kinds of things might we engage in together?
Who's weight?
Uh, that would be juicy for you, that, uh, we, the people in this group listening to this call right this second, this week, a very, very local we,
And one thing I'm interested in is…
doing something provocative to tease, cajole, poke, provoke the insurance companies. Like, I'm like,
Little tired… little tired of them not stepping up and helping change the world, shape the world for the good.
Uh, in some way, and I would love to do something provocative
Toward the insurance company, so…
me if you'd like to play with that together, and maybe there's something there, but I bet there's a bunch of other things that have been
In our minds that if we share them into the chat, we might find two, three people
want to get together and do things, and then go off and do them, which would be great. And if you do any of that,
come back and tell us about it later.
Klaus, thank you for your patience.
Yeah, along the same lines as Jesse was just outlining, and Stacy, I like the… Um, neighborhoods of sanity concept, um…
What is really happening in the regenerative movement right now. Is a concept someone else described as islands of coherence.
Um, so the real… the realization that we can't spread lateral, you know, and boil the ocean, so to speak.
You have to take one community at a time. And the reason why… why that is so important is because we are, on the one hand, talking at the narrative level, right? Storylines. And so we are creating stories.
Of change, of transition. But then, Donil Meadows comes to mind, right? The pyramid of, uh…
Of a system where, yes, you have the narrative level that really… that really condenses the story.
But then that same narrative has to stay intact. As it rolls down the pyramid. Oh, I really call it an inverted pyramid, right? Because.
The narrative is at the base. And of holding up the entire pyramid. So as you go through those layers, now, through the administrative part.
The operational part. That story has to stay intact. And motivate and direct, you know, the action.
Of people in that community, so that really takes… you know, a transition. Now, it takes a convergence.
You know, of, uh, of many different layers there. And so… I'm… I'm… you know, you know, I'm working with Spiral Dynamics, so when we go into the base layers of this pyramid.
That's when you are operating in PLU. Right? People who are, uh, in, in… like Mike Johnson is the epitome of blue, uh, the Speaker of the House.
So that's a different language, and that language is actually… has been evolving over, you know, 2,000 years.
That's New Testament language that gets you into the hearts and minds of people who are operating in that layer.
So, we shouldn't hesitate. You know, to… because it's religion and all this stuff.
We shouldn't hesitate to use that language. Uh, in order to reach out, because…
That's the world that, you know, this, uh. Group has been embedded in.
And cool up in. You know, school, Sunday school, and… You know, Bible studies and all of this stuff. That's the language they understand.
So we can make… we have metaphors. That are instantly recognizable and resonate, yeah?
Um, and I think there is this… Um, note this translation where there's a lot of knee-jerk reactions of, you know, I can't use this, this is childish, or this is whatever. No, this is the language of people you're trying to reach.
No, and uh… Uh, and so, so, why not, why not, why not, uh, use it to its fullest?
And there's a hunger right now. Now, you can see in the pop… you can see these…
Often misguided attempts to bring religion into the… conversation, but in the way it's done, it's more exploitative than supportive.
Yeah? Um… So there are pockets of, of, uh, like this one congressperson in Texas, who is a pastor.
You know, wonderfully articulate, and he is… I'm afraid and unintimidated to.
Use biblical language to address his waters. Yeah, and so that's… I think this is… this… we have to change minds, we have to change narratives.
No, we have to change stories. And we are pretty much consolidated on the story we have at the top. I mean, amongst ourselves here.
You know, the story is pretty clear what it should be, where we should be going, and so on.
That this is not the challenge. The challenge is to translate this story.
Right? So it echoes in the different layers of this pyramid.
In each… in each phase of them. Sorry, didn't mean to preach.
That's right. Thanks, Thus.
I just noticed we're coming up on the end of our time. Klaus, you may have the last word. We have no Sir Ken Homer with us today, but I think I've found a poem that I would like to read in.
as our clothes.
Uh, so Gil, off to you.
Sorry, I thought you were giving claps the last word. Just very briefly, Klaus, I appreciate very much what you're saying, and I want to just
flag a contradiction in what I heard of what you're saying.
Uh, which is about understanding people's language and speaking to them in that, but that can be manipulative, you said.
I think. Um, and exploitative. So there's a challenge there of how to do that that
centers the listening more than the speaking.
Like, how do I engage with somebody who's in a very different language and worldview than me, so that we can understand each other different than me
learning how to use their language so I can get them to do what they want.
Because that sort of re-recapitulates the same problem. So, and it's a delicate dance.
to do that. But I think that's what you're pointing to, and you flagged the contradiction. I just wanted to highlight that, that
I heard a quote somewhere, I thought it was attributed to Gandhi, but I can't find it anywhere.
Um, but somebody once told me that all persuasion is violence.
And it's, you know, it's an extreme statement, it's provocative, but there's something, for me, very generative in thinking into that.
Um, how do I meet minds with other people and find better common purpose together without
Trying to bend them to my will.
The best I've found…
Sorry.
Jerry, thank you.
Yeah, no, absolutely listening. Two years, one loss, right?
You mentioned… I think you brought this up on the call of, uh, 828?
Uh, and I looked it up, and closest I got was Sally Miller Gearhart.
Close enough for me, I love it. Thank you so much.
Yeah, that was my best tracking. Pete can probably do better than me on this, but uh…
Just saying, I'm not… I'm just a yellow belt.
On the… on this.
Uh, Stacy, you're gonna have a last word, which seems somehow appropriate, because you have the opening sound, too.
I know you wanted… I think… I just think this is an appropriate story for this last interaction.
So, in a conversation with my mother. Who voted for Trump three times. She's very old, you know, she's old, she's…
You know, we're going through our last things. She was very upset, I'm trying to calm her down, I don't want to fight with her.
Now, I'm Jewish, we had no religious training, I'm actually the only one that ever… I mean, my father was bar mitzvahed because his family, you know, did that.
They were Democrats, they had Kennedy in their house, my mother's.
Right? She was all Uncle Sam. So she's talking to me. She's always… she always… she sounds… it has to… she sounds like an evangelical.
She's always talking about the Lord, the Lord, the Lord. So she was worried about something, so I said, Mom, let's pray together.
So, but I prayed to her, and I was calling in Gaia.
And anyway, she got very upset with me, and I forgot why I brought up this story, but it had to do with the language. Oh, and that's what it was.
It was the delicate dance. Because even though I was using what she kept saying about prayer and how important prayer was.
Now I was willing to… pray with her. And… you know, I said, you know, call upon grandma, and, you know, we call… and she believes in that, too. She really does.
But it was just very interesting, because when I wasn't going in the direction she wanted.
She got very, very angry. And that's what happens when you use somebody's own language, and we saw that with Charlie Kirk.
When people used his own words. People can get really angry, so it is a delicate dance, because.
When you're dealing at a certain level of. Purposely trying to not be aware.
All the… all the emotions come out to push you away.
So, this wasn't the most articulate way to explain it, but it's a starting point for another conversation.
Thank you, Stacey. And you're reminding me a belated Shanatava.
to those who celebrate.
Over.
Happy New Year.
Thank you.
Um, thanks. Uh…
2. Thank you.
Doug, thank you very much. Uh, I… the poem that, uh, I will now read is by Cheshwav Miwash.
I think that's how to pronounce his name?
It's titled Love.
and it goes as follows.
Love means to learn to look at yourself, the way one looks at distant things.
For you are only one thing.
Among many. And whoever sees that way,
Heals his heart without knowing it, from various ills.
A bird and a tree say hi to him.
trend. Then, he wants to use himself and things so that they stand in the glow of ripeness.
It doesn't matter whether he knows what he serves,
Who serves best doesn't always understand.
Can you read it again, Sherry?
Sure.
Love means to learn, to look at yourself.
The way one looks at distant things.
For you are only one thing among many.
And whoever sees that way heals his heart, without knowing it.
from various ills.
a bird and a tree say to him,
Friend.
Then he wants to use himself and things.
So that they stand in the glow of ripeness.
It doesn't matter whether he knows what he serves.
Who serves best doesn't always understand.
Uh, it's in the chat already.
Beautiful.
Thank you. Can you give us a link? Thank you.
Thanks, Saul. Um…
Thank you.
Thanks for a wonderful conversation, really appreciate this.
Um, and the way…
The way we all approach these kinds of conversations makes my heart sing, so…
Thank you very much.
Excellent.
Thank you.